 = How to Make a Book Your Own =

When you buy a book, you establish a property right in it, just as you do in clothes or furniture when you buy and pay for them. But the act of purchase is actually only the prelude to possession in the case of a book. Full ownership of a book only comes when you have made it a part of yourself, and the best way to make yourself a part of it - which comes to the same thing is by writing in it.

== Why is marking a book indispensable to reading it? ==

1. It keeps you awake - not merely conscious, but wide awake
2. Read, if it is active, is thinking, and thinking tends to express itself in words, spoken or written
3. Writing your reactions down helps you to remember the thoughts of the author

Reading a book should be a conversation between you and the author. Presumably he knows more about the subject than you do. But understanding is a two-way operation; _*the learner has to question himself and question the teacher*_

== Some devices for marking a book intelligently and fruitfully ==
1. UNDERLINING - of major points; of important or forceful statements (ex. quotes)
2. VERTICAL LINES AT THE MARGIN - to emphasize a statement already underlined or to point to a passage too long to be underlined
3. STAR, ASTERISK, OR OTHER DOODAD AT THE MARGIN - to be used sparingly, to emphasize the ten or dozen most important statements or passages in the book. Mark these pages (ex. folded corner) for quick lookups
4. NUMBERS IN THE MARGIN - to indicate a sequence of points made by the author in developing an argument
5. NUMBERS OF OTHER PAGES IN THE MARGIN - to indicate where else in the book the author makes the same points, or points relevant to or in contradiction of those here marked; to tie up the ideas in a book, which, though the may be separated by many pages, belong together. Many readers use the symbol "Cf" (means "compare" or "refer to") to indicate the other page numbers
6. CIRCLING OF KEY WORDS OR PHRASES - same function as underlining
7. WRITING IN THE MARGIN, OR AT THE TOP OR BOTTOM OF THE PAGE - to record questions (and perhaps answers) which a passage raises in your mind; to reduce a complicated discussing to a simple statement; to record the sequence of major points right through the book. The endpapers at the back of the book can be used to make a personal index of the author's points in the order of their appearance

Use back endpapers as a personal index of the author's points. When completed, use the front endpapers to try to outline the book, not as page by page or point by point (you have already done that at the back), but as an integrated structure, with a basic outline and an order of parts. That outline will be the measure of your understanding of the work; unlinke a book plate, it will express your intellectual ownership of the book
