= Week 2 - Chunking =

What is a Chunk?
	Pieces of information bounded together though use and meaning
	Can get bigger and become more complex
	Repeated groups of firing neurons. Helps brain run more efficiently (all the steps you do in a task)
	Solidified groups of firing neurons developed through repetition of a task, increasing efficiency for that task

How to form a chunk?
	Get an initial sense of pattern
	Best chunk are patterns you don't need to think about
	
	Step 1: Focus undivided attention on the information you want to chunk. (Don't get distracted)
	Step 2: Understand the basic idea you are trying to chunk (you must review, doesn't count without reviewing)
	Step 3: Gaining context so you can see how and when to use the chunk (Practice helps broaden network of neurons connected to chunk not only to make it firm, but can be called from different ways) Doing a rapid 2-min picture walk through a chapter in a book before you start studying it glancing at headings and pictures can allow you to get a sense of the big pictures 
	
	Chunks are best built with:
		- Focused attention
		- Understanding
		- Practice

	- There is a bottom-up chunking process where practice and repetition can help you both build and strengthen each chunk, so you can easily gain access to it when needed.
	- There is a top-down “big picture” process that allows you to see where what you are learning fits in. 
	- Both bottom-up chunking processes and top-down "big picture" processes are vital in gaining mastery over the material. 
	- Chunking may involve your learning how to use a certain problem-solving technique. Context means learning when to use that technique instead of some other technique.

Illusions of Competence, Importance of Recall, Mini-testing, and Making Mistakes
	Recall
		- After you read material, look away and see how much of the material you can recall; mental retrieval of key ideas
		- Do this in various locations so its not related to initial learning environment
	Illusions of Competence
		- Glancing at a solution thinking you know it yourself is number 1 here.
		- Must have information to persist in memory

What Motivates You?
	Controlled by dopamine (released when receiving an unexpected rewards, business predicting future awards)
	Emotion
	
The Value of a Library of Chunks
	Training brain to recognize different types and classes of concepts
	
	Law of Serendipity
		- Lady Luck favors the one who tries

Mini-testing
	Recall is a type of mini-testing

Overlearning, Choking, the Einstellung Effect, and Interleaving
	Overlearning
		- Use subsequent study sessions, don't repeat things you already know well. Creates Illusion of competence
	
	Deliberate Practice
	
	Einstellung Effect
		- Blocked thoughts
		- Einstellung Mean "Mindset" in German

	Interleaving
		- Practicing jumping back and forth between problems or situations that require different techniques or strategies


Multimode input essential for learning

Selfexplanation - Write out like your teaching someone a concept you are learning. Where you find vagueness or friction is where you need to focus

Mental tools for motivation
	- Little steps and mini projects

Idea:
	Always have a mission
	- 3 Month missions for languages
	- Design Missions

Avoid Low Intensity Low Energy methods for mental improvements
	- Less time but more intense learning > More time but less intense learning
